[WIP] GitOps 1.10.0 release notes documentation. (#65102)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/gitops-release-notes-1-10-0.adoc

// Module included in the following assembly:
//
// * gitops/gitops-release-notes.adoc

:_content-type: REFERENCE

[id="gitops-release-notes-1-10-0_{context}"]
= Release notes for {gitops-title} 1.10.0

{gitops-title} 1.10.0 is now available on {product-title} 4.12 and 4.13.

[id="errata-updates-1-10.0_{context}"]
== Errata updates

[id="rhsa-2023-XXXX-gitops-1-10-0-security-update-advisory_{context}"]
=== RHSA-2023:XXXX - {gitops-title} 1.10.0 security update advisory

Issued: 2023-09-26

The list of security fixes and enhancements that are included in this release is documented in the following advisories:

* link:https://errata.devel.redhat.com/advisory/120274[RHSA-2023:xxxx]
* link:https://errata.engineering.redhat.com/advisory/120119[RHEA-2023:YYYY]

If you have installed the {gitops-title} Operator, run the following command to view the container images in this release:

[source,terminal]
----
$ oc describe deployment gitops-operator-controller-manager -n openshift-operators
----

[id="new-features-1-10-0_{context}"]
== New features

The current release adds the following improvements:

> * With this update, the {gitops-title} Operator will deploy three monitoring dashboards in the web console of the Admin perspective. The three dashboards are: *GitOps Overview*, *GitOps Components*, and *GitOps gRPC*. You can access these dashboards by navigating to *Observe* → *Monitoring*. link:https:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-1767[GITOPS-1767]

Author: Addressed. thank you!

+
[NOTE]
====
Disabling or changing the content of the dashboards is not supported.
====

> * With this update, the {gitops-title} Operator can now gather and export metrics data that can be handled by Prometheus. The data collected by the metrics server will include the following:

Author: Addressed

+
** Total number of Argo CD instances managed and reconciled.
** The number of Argo CD instances in a given state, such as pending, available, among others. 
** The total time for the reconciliation loops to complete per instance,
** Amount of resources used such as CPU, memory, and number of goroutines.
+

> You can access these metrics by navigating to the *Observe* tab on the web console, and run queries against the monitoring stack. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-2645[GITOPS-2645]

Author: Addressed

+
[NOTE]
====
You need to installed the {gitops-title} Operator in the default `openshift-gitops-operator` namespace, in order to have these metrics automatically available.
====

> * With this update, the {gitops-title} Operator has been enhanced to feature human-readable timestamps in its logs. Previously, timestamps were being presented in a Unix epoch format, but they have now been changed to RFC3339 format, for example: 2023-06-27T07:12:48-04:00, to improve overall readability. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-2898[GITOPS-2898]

Author: Updated, Thank you!

> * With this update, the default Argo CD instance in the `openshift-gitops` namespace will have restricted permissions for non-admin users by default. This will improve security since non-admin users will no longer have access to sensitive information. However, as an administrator, you can set permissions and grant non-admin users access to the resources managed by the default `openshift-gitops` Argo CD instance by configuring your Argo CD RBAC. This change only applies to the default {gitops-title} instance. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-3032[GITOPS-3032]

Author: Addressed, Thank you!

* With this update, the default installation namespace for {gitops-title} Operator has been changed to its own namespace called `openshift-gitops-operators`. You can still choose the old default installation namespace, `openshift-operators`, through a drop down menu available in the OperatorHub UI at installation time. You can also enable cluster monitoring on this namespace by selecting the check box, which will make the operator's performance metrics accessible within the {product-title} web console. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-3073[GITOPS-3073]
+
[NOTE]
====
The {gitops-title} Operator's metrics will only be available when the operator is installed in the namespace other than `openshift-operators`.

> ====

Reviewer: @masauso-lungu 

- drop down menu >> drop-down menu
- correction in Note (change operator to Operator): The {gitops-title} Operator metrics are only available when the Operator is installed in the namespace other than `openshift-operators`. Refer to https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#operator-capitalization

> ====

Author: Implemented, thanks!

* Before this update, there was no option for scaling the application controller replicas dynamically. Now, you can dynamically scale the number of application controllers based on the number of clusters managed by each application controller. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-3287[GITOPS-3287]

> * Before this update, there was no option to choose an algorthim for distributing the destination clusters equally across the different application controller shards. Now, you can set the sharding algorithm to round-robin, which would distribute clusters equally across the different application controller shards so that the synchronization load is spread equally among the shards. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-3288[GITOPS-3288]

Reviewer: @masauso-lungu What type of object is `round-robin` in API? Please find out from the SME.

Refer to https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#api-object-formatting

> * With this update, the {gitops-title} Operator will exports a few custom metrics that will allow you to track the performance of the operator. These metrics include:

Author: Content updated, thank you.

> * With this update, the {gitops-title} Operator will exports a few custom metrics that will allow you to track the performance of the operator. These metrics include:

Reviewer: @masauso-lungu Refer to https://redhat-documentation.github.io/supplementary-style-guide/#lead-in-sentences

As per SSG and IBM:

- Use a complete sentence for the lead-in sentence to reduce ambiguity and support translation.
- Lead-in wording: Generally, use a sentence to introduce a list that is not a procedure. Translation consideration: To avoid possible translation problems, use complete sentences and not phrases to introduce lists. Machine translators often translate at the sentence-level and return the best results when they have a
complete sentence to parse.

** `active_argocd_instances_total` - The number of Argo CD instances currently being managed across the cluster.
** `active_argocd_instances_by_phase{phase="_some-phase"}` - The number of managed Argo CD instances in the given phase.
** `active_argocd_instance_reconciliation_count{namespace="<_your-namespace>"}` - The number of times the instance in a given namespace has been reconciled.

> ** `controller_runtime_reconcile_time_seconds_per_instance{namespace="_your-namespace"}` - The distribution of reconciliation cycles by their durations for the instance in a given namespace. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-3071[GITOPS-3071]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
** `active_argocd_instances_total` - The number of Argo CD instances currently managed across the cluster
** `active_argocd_instances_by_phase{phase="_some-phase"}` - The number of managed Argo CD instances in the given phase
** `active_argocd_instance_reconciliation_count{namespace="<_your-namespace>"}` - The number of times the instance in a given namespace is reconciled
** `controller_runtime_reconcile_time_seconds_per_instance{namespace="_your-namespace"}` - The distribution of reconciliation cycles by their duration for the instance in a given namespace link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-3071[GITOPS-3071]
```

> * With this update, the Argo CD CRD API version has been upgraded from v1alpha1 to v1beta1 in order to accomodate the breaking changes resulting from the deprecation of `.spec.dex` and certain `.spec.sso` fields. To streamline the automatic migration of existing v1alpha1 ArgoCD CRs to v1beta1, conversion webhook support has been implemented. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-3040[GITOPS-3040]

Reviewer: @masauso-lungu Please move this issue to be at the top. This issue must appear as the 1st issue in the list under the New features/Enhancements section.

> * With this update, the Argo CD CRD API version has been upgraded from v1alpha1 to v1beta1 in order to accomodate the breaking changes resulting from the deprecation of `.spec.dex` and certain `.spec.sso` fields. To streamline the automatic migration of existing v1alpha1 ArgoCD CRs to v1beta1, conversion webhook support has been implemented. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-3040[GITOPS-3040]
> +
> [NOTE]
> ====
> By default, the conversion webhook is enabled only for OLM-installed operators. For non-OLM installations of the operator, enabling the webhook is optional. However, without conversion webhook support, you are responsible for manually migrating any existing ArgoCD v1alpha1 CRs to v1beta1.
> ====

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* With this update, the Argo CD CRD API version is upgraded from `v1alpha1` to `v1beta1` to accomodate the breaking changes resulting from the deprecation of `.spec.dex` and certain `.spec.sso` fields. To streamline the automatic migration of existing `v1alpha1` Argo CD CRs to `v1beta1`, conversion webhook support is implemented. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-3040[GITOPS-3040]
+
[NOTE]
====
By default, the conversion webhook is enabled only for OLM-installed operators. For non-OLM installations of the operator, enabling the webhook is optional. However, without conversion webhook support, you have to manually migrate any existing Argo CD `v1alpha1` CRs to `v1beta1`.
====
```

Author: content updated as advised.

[id="deprecated-features-1-10-0_{context}"]
== Deprecated and removed features

> * With this release, the following deprecated `sso` and `dex` fields have been removed from ArgoCD CR:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* With this release, the following deprecated `sso` and `dex` fields are removed from the Argo CD CR:
```

Author: changes implemented.

> ** The `.spec.sso.image`, `.spec.sso.version`, `.spec.sso.resources`, and `.spec.sso.verifyTLS` fields for keycloak SSO configurations.
> ** The `.spec.dex` fields, along with `DISABLE_DEX` environment variable.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
** The `.spec.sso.image`, `.spec.sso.version`, `.spec.sso.resources`, and `.spec.sso.verifyTLS` fields for keycloak SSO configurations
** The `.spec.dex` fields, along with `DISABLE_DEX` environment variable
```

+

> Additionally, the `.status.dex` and `.status.ssoConfig` fields have also been removed, and a new status field, `.status.sso`, has been introduced.The new field reflects the workload status of the SSO provider (dex or keycloak) configured via the `.spec.sso.provider` field. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-2473[GITOPS-2473]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Additionally, the `.status.dex` and `.status.ssoConfig` fields are also removed, and a new status field, `.status.sso`, is introduced. The new field reflects the workload status of the SSO provider (dex or keycloak) configured through the `.spec.sso.provider` field. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-2473[GITOPS-2473]
```

+
[IMPORTANT]
====
To configure dex or keycloak SSO, use the equivalent fields under `.spec.sso`.
==== 

> * With this update, the deprecated `.spec.resourceCustomizations` field has been removed from ArgoCD CR. Bug fixes and support will only be provided through the end of the {gitops-title} v1.9 lifecycle.
> As an alternative to `.spec.resourceCustomizations`, you can use `.spec.resourceHealthChecks`, `.spec.resourceIgnoreDifferences`, and `.spec.resourceActions` fields instead. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-3041[GITOPS-3041]
> +
> [IMPORTANT]
> ====
> To prevent data loss during upgrade to {gitops-title} Operator v1.10.0, ensure that you backup `.spec.resourceCustomization` value if it is used in your ArgoCD CRs.
> ==== 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* With this update, the deprecated `.spec.resourceCustomizations` field is removed from Argo CD CR. Bug fixes and support are only provided through the end of the {gitops-title} v1.9 lifecycle.
As an alternative to `.spec.resourceCustomizations`, you can use `.spec.resourceHealthChecks`, `.spec.resourceIgnoreDifferences`, and `.spec.resourceActions` fields instead. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-3041[GITOPS-3041]
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
To prevent data loss during upgrade to {gitops-title} Operator v1.10.0, ensure that you backup `.spec.resourceCustomization` value if it is used in your Argo CD CRs.
==== 
```

// Module included in the following assembly:
//
// * gitops/gitops-release-notes.adoc

:_content-type: REFERENCE

[id="gitops-release-notes-1-10-0_{context}"]
= Release notes for {gitops-title} 1.10.0

> {gitops-title} 1.10.0 is now available on {product-title} 4.12 and 4.13.

Reviewer 3: This should also include 4.14

Reviewer: @reginapizza 4.14 is not yet GA. we will have to have a 1 pointer JIRA issue to change it here later after 4.14 is out and LIVE.

Author: Noted!

> {gitops-title} 1.10.0 is now available on {product-title} 4.12, 4.13 and 4.14.

Reviewer 4: Do we want to get 4.14 involved as its not GA yet

Author: Well I was told to by @reginapizza to do so.

Reviewer: @masauso-lungu 4.14 is not yet GA. we will have to have a 1 pointer JIRA issue to change it here later after 4.14 is out and LIVE.

Please see this comment: https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/65102#discussion_r1336782442

Author: Noted!, i did not see that comment. Removed now.

[id="errata-updates-1-10.0_{context}"]
== Errata updates

[id="gitops-1-10-0-security-update-advisory_{context}"]
=== RHSA-2023:XXXX and RHEA-2023:YYYY - {gitops-title} 1.10.0 security update advisory

> Issued: 2023-09-26

Author: Addressed. Thank you.

> Issued: 2023-09-27

Reviewer 4: We might change the release date to 28th, we'll update soon

Author: Sure, keep me posted if need be.

The list of security fixes and enhancements that are included in this release is documented in the following advisories:

* link:https://errata.devel.redhat.com/advisory/120274[RHSA-2023:XXXX]
* link:https://errata.engineering.redhat.com/advisory/120119[RHEA-2023:YYYY]

If you have installed the {gitops-title} Operator, run the following command to view the container images in this release:

[source,terminal]
----

> $ oc describe deployment gitops-operator-controller-manager -n openshift-operators

Author: Addressed. the command now specify the default namespace.

----

[id="new-features-1-10-0_{context}"]
== New features

The current release adds the following improvements:

> * With this update, the Argo CD CRD API version is upgraded from `v1alpha1` to `v1beta1` in order to accomodate the breaking changes resulting from the deprecation of `.spec.dex` and certain `.spec.sso` fields. To streamline the automatic migration of existing `v1alpha1` Argo CD CRs to `v1beta1`, conversion webhook support has been implemented. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-3040[GITOPS-3040]

Author: Done

> * With this update, the Argo CD CRD API version is upgraded from `v1alpha1` to `v1beta1` in order to accomodate the breaking changes resulting from the deprecation of `.spec.dex` and certain `.spec.sso` fields. To streamline the automatic migration of existing `v1alpha1` Argo CD CRs to `v1beta1`, conversion webhook support has been implemented. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-3040[GITOPS-3040]

Author: Done!

+
[NOTE]
====
By default, the conversion webhook is enabled only for OLM-installed Operators. For non-OLM installations of the Operator, enabling the webhook is optional. However, without conversion webhook support, you have to manually migrate any existing Argo CD `v1alpha1` CRs to `v1beta1`.
====

> * With this update, the {gitops-title} Operator deploys three monitoring dashboards in the Administrator perspective of the web console. The three dashboards are: *GitOps Overview*, *GitOps Components*, and *GitOps gRPC*. To access these dashboards, go to *Observe* → *Monitoring*. link:https:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-1767[GITOPS-1767]

Author: Resolved. thank you.

+
[NOTE]
====
Disabling or changing the content of the dashboards is not supported.
====

* With this update, the {gitops-title} Operator now gathers and exports metrics data that can be handled by Prometheus. The following are the metrics data collected by the server:
+
** The total number of Argo CD instances managed and reconciled.
** The number of Argo CD instances in a given state, such as pending, available, among others. 
** The total time for the reconciliation loops to complete per instance,

> ** The amount of resources used such as CPU, memory, and number of goroutines.

Author: Done!

+
To access these metrics, go to the *Observe* tab on the web console, and run queries against the monitoring stack. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-2645[GITOPS-2645]
+
[NOTE]
====

> You need to install the {gitops-title} Operator in the default `openshift-gitops-operator` namespace, in order to have these metrics automatically available.

Reviewer 3: users will also need to have monitoring enabled to view the dashboards in addition to having the operator installed in that namespace. When they install from operatorhub they will have a checkbox option presented to them asking if they want to enable monitoring and it has to be checked.

Author: Noted

> You need to install the {gitops-title} Operator in the default `openshift-gitops-operator` namespace and have monitoring enabled, in order to have these metrics automatically available.

Reviewer 2: in order to: same as the comment above

> You need to install the {gitops-title} Operator in the default `openshift-gitops-operator` namespace and have monitoring enabled, in order to have these metrics automatically available.

Author: Done!

====

* Previously, timestamps were presented in a Unix epoch format. With this update, the timestamps are changed to RFC3339 format, for example: 2023-06-27T07:12:48-04:00, to improve overall readability. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-2898[GITOPS-2898]

> * With this update, the default Argo CD instance in the `openshift-gitops` namespace has restricted permissions for non-admin users by default. This improves security because non-admin users no longer have access to sensitive information. However, as an administrator, you can set permissions and grant non-admin users access to the resources managed by the default `openshift-gitops` Argo CD instance by configuring your Argo CD RBAC. This change only applies to the default {gitops-title} instance. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-3032[GITOPS-3032]

Reviewer 3: As I said on the jira release notes text, I think we should add a link to the docs  for configuring Argo CD RBAC if possible (https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.12/cicd/gitops/configuring-argo-cd-rbac.html)?

Author: Noted

Reviewer: @reginapizza let us refrain from adding doc links here as we are going standalone. This will add overload in changing redirect links for us due to the changes in file location.

Author: Noted!

> * With this update, the default installation namespace for {gitops-title} Operator has been changed to its own namespace called `openshift-gitops-operators`. You can still choose the old default installation namespace, `openshift-operators`, through a drop-down menu available in the OperatorHub UI at installation time. You can also enable cluster monitoring on the new namespace by selecting the check box, which makes the Operator's performance metrics accessible within the {product-title} web console. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-3073[GITOPS-3073]

Author: Noted!

> * With this update, the default installation namespace for {gitops-title} Operator has been changed to its own namespace called `openshift-gitops-operator`. You can still choose the old default installation namespace, `openshift-operators`, through a drop-down menu available in the OperatorHub UI at installation time. You can also enable cluster monitoring on the new namespace by selecting the check box, which makes the Operator's performance metrics accessible within the {product-title} web console. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-3073[GITOPS-3073]

Reviewer 2: Same as the comment above

+
[NOTE]
====

> The {gitops-title} Operator's metrics are only available when the Operator is installed in the namespace other than `openshift-operators`.

Reviewer 3: this doesn't seem very clear to me... it's only available when the operator is installed in the `openshift-gitops-operator` namespace, not just any other namespace.

Author: I have updated content. It now clearly state the default namespace.

====

* Before this update, there was no option for scaling the application controller replicas dynamically. Now, you can dynamically scale the number of application controllers based on the number of clusters managed by each application controller. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-3287[GITOPS-3287]

> * Before this update, there was no option for choosing an algorithm for distributing the destination clusters equally across the different application controller shards. Now, you can set the sharding algorithm to `round-robin` parameter, which distributes clusters equally across the different application controller shards so that the synchronization load is spread equally among the shards. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-3288[GITOPS-3288]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Before this update, there was no option for choosing an algorithm for distributing the destination clusters equally across the different application controller shards. Now, you can set the sharding algorithm to the `round-robin` parameter, which distributes clusters equally across the different application controller shards so that the synchronization load is spread equally among the shards. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-3288[GITOPS-3288]
```

Author: Done!

> * With this update, the {gitops-title} Operator exports custom metrics that allow you to track the performance of the Operator. Among the exported metrics are:

Reviewer 2: As per suggestion by Sri.  I think it is still an incomplete sentence as it is put now. So I would suggest to change it to something like this: 
```suggestion
* With this update, the {gitops-title} Operator exports custom metrics that allow you to track the performance of the Operator. The following are the exported metrics:
```

> * With this update, the {gitops-title} Operator exports custom metrics that allow you to track the performance of the Operator. The following are the exported metrics:

Reviewer 4: @jaideepr97 should we rearrange this with https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-2645 as they are related?

Reviewer 3: the exported metrics and the dashboards are separate features, I don't think they need to be included together

Reviewer 5: @varshab1210 yes, i just noticed that this block is duplicated
it would make sense to merge this with lines 51-58

Reviewer 3: ^ sorry read the text from 2645 saying that it was available in the Observe section of web console and assumed it was talking about the dashboards... my bad! Ignore my comment above

> ** `active_argocd_instances_total` - The number of Argo CD instances currently managed across the cluster.
> ** `active_argocd_instances_by_phase{phase="<_PHASE>"}` - The number of managed Argo CD instances in the given phase.
> ** `active_argocd_instance_reconciliation_count{namespace="<_YOUR-DEFINED-NAMESPACE>"}` - The number of times the instance in a given namespace is reconciled.
> ** `controller_runtime_reconcile_time_seconds_per_instance{namespace="<_YOUR-DEFINED-NAMESPACE>"}` - The distribution of reconciliation cycles by their duration for the instance in a given namespace.

Reviewer 2: IBM guidelines:
If a list item has two parts, do not use a hyphen or dash to separate the parts. Use a definition list to define terms, and use a period or colon to separate items in other lists. Be consistent with the punctuation marks that you apply.

So I would suggest changes similar to this:
```suggestion
** `active_argocd_instances_total`: This shows the number of Argo CD instances currently managed across the cluster.
** `active_argocd_instances_by_phase{phase="<_PHASE>"}`: This shows  the number of managed Argo CD instances in the given phase.
** `active_argocd_instance_reconciliation_count{namespace="<_YOUR-DEFINED-NAMESPACE>"}`: This shows the number of times the instance in a given namespace is reconciled.
** `controller_runtime_reconcile_time_seconds_per_instance{namespace="<_YOUR-DEFINED-NAMESPACE>"}`: This metric displays the distribution of reconciliation cycles by their duration for the instance in a given namespace.
```

Author: Done!

link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-3071[GITOPS-3071]

[id="deprecated-features-1-10-0_{context}"]
== Deprecated and removed features

* With this release, the following deprecated `sso` and `dex` fields are removed from Argo CD CR:

> ** The `.spec.sso.image`, `.spec.sso.version`, `.spec.sso.resources`, and `.spec.sso.verifyTLS` fields for keycloak SSO configurations.
> ** The `.spec.dex` fields, along with `DISABLE_DEX` environment variable.

Reviewer 2: I am not sure why this was not addressed since the comment was marked as resolved  (same for the first item list). Here it is the same as I mentioned above:
IBM style guide: If list items comprise only sentence fragments, do not include any end punctuation.
```suggestion
** The `.spec.sso.image`, `.spec.sso.version`, `.spec.sso.resources`, and `.spec.sso.verifyTLS` fields for keycloak SSO configurations
** The `.spec.dex` fields, along with `DISABLE_DEX` environment variable
```

Author: @ekristova,I had addressed it, but @Srivaralakshmi advised that panctuation marks should be returned, that is why you are seeing them again

Author: done

Reviewer 2: I see, thank your for the explanation @masauso-lungu !

Reviewer 2: It was my mistake that I did not quote the changes I was requesting first time, so now I made sure to explain every change with IBM guide

Author: Thank you @ekristova

+
[IMPORTANT]
====
To configure dex or keycloak SSO, use the equivalent fields under `.spec.sso`.
==== 

* With this update, the deprecated `.spec.resourceCustomizations` field is removed from Argo CD CR. Bug fixes and support are only provided through the end of the {gitops-title} v1.9 lifecycle.
As an alternative to `.spec.resourceCustomizations`, you can use `.spec.resourceHealthChecks`, `.spec.resourceIgnoreDifferences`, and `.spec.resourceActions` fields instead. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-3041[GITOPS-3041]
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
To prevent data loss during upgrade to {gitops-title} Operator v1.10.0, ensure that you backup `.spec.resourceCustomization` value if it is used in your Argo CD CRs.
==== 

[id="fixed-issues-1-10-0_{context}"]
== Fixed issues

The following issues have been resolved in the current release:

* Before this update, there were vulnerabilities on Redis. This update fixes the issue by upgrading Redis to the latest version of `registry.redhat.io/rhel-8/redis-6`. link: https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-3069[GITOPS-3069]

> * Before this update, users were facing an "x509: certificate signed by unknown authority" error when using scmProvider with GitLab. This update fixes the issue by adding support for `Insecure` flag for scmProvider with Gitlab, and an option for mounting TLS certificate on the applicationSet controller.

Reviewer 3: capitalize L in GitLab

Author: Done!

> * Before this update, users were facing an "x509: certificate signed by unknown authority" error when using scmProvider with GitLab. This update fixes the issue by adding support for `Insecure` flag for scmProvider with GitLab, and an option for mounting TLS certificate on the applicationSet controller.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Before this update, users were facing an "x509: certificate signed by unknown authority" error when using scmProvider with GitLab. This update fixes the issue by adding support for the `Insecure` flag for scmProvider with GitLab, and an option for mounting TLS certificate on the applicationSet controller.
```

Author: done

> This certificate can then be utilized for scmProvider interactions with Gitlab. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-3107[GITOPS-3107]

Reviewer 3: Same capitalization comment here

Author: addressed.

+
[NOTE]
====
The {gitops-title} Operator's metrics are only available when the Operator is installed in the namespace other than `openshift-operators`.
====

* Before this update, there was no option for scaling the application controller replicas dynamically. Now, you can dynamically scale the number of application controllers based on the number of clusters managed by each application controller. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-3287[GITOPS-3287]

* Before this update, there was no option for choosing an algorthm for distributing the destination clusters equally across the different application controller shards. Now, you can set the sharding algorithm to `round-robin`, which distributes clusters equally across the different application controller shards so that the synchronization load is spread equally among the shards. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-3288[GITOPS-3288]

> * With this update, the {gitops-title} Operator exports custom metrics that allow you to track the performance of the Operator. These metrics include:

Reviewer 5: Maybe we can rephrase this as "the included metrics are:"

** `active_argocd_instances_total` - The number of Argo CD instances currently managed across the cluster
** `active_argocd_instances_by_phase{phase="<_PHASE>"}` - The number of managed Argo CD instances in the given phase
** `active_argocd_instance_reconciliation_count{namespace="<_YOUR-DEFINED-NAMESPACE>"}` - The number of times the instance in a given namespace is reconciled

> ** `controller_runtime_reconcile_time_seconds_per_instance{namespace="<_YOUR-DEFINED-NAMESPACE>"}` - The distribution of reconciliation cycles by their duration for the instance in a given namespace

Reviewer: Punctuate the sentences with a period. I see that in history you have the punctuation. 

@ekristova Any reason why the punctuation is removed? I see that they read as complete sentence. Am I missing somethign here?
